this is the bump the Bop is a type of
social dance dance is a language and
social dance is an expression that
emerges from a community a social dance
is in choreographed by any one person it
can't be traced to any one moment each
dance has steps that everyone can agree
on but it's about the individual and
their creative identity because of that
social dances bubble up they change and
they spread like wildfire they are as
old as our remembered history in
african-american social dances we see
over 200 years of how african and
african american traditions influenced
our history the present always contains
the past in the past shapes who we are
and who we will be the Juba dance was
born from enslaved Africans experienced
on the plantation brought to the
Americas stripped of a common spoken
language this dance was a way for
enslaved Africans to remember where
they're from it may have looked
something like this
slapping thighs shuffling feet and
patting hands this was how they got
around the slave owners ban on drumming
improvising complex rhythms just like
ancestors did with drums in Haiti or in
the Europe of communities of West Africa
it was about keeping cultural traditions
alive and retaining a sense of inner
freedom under captivity
it was the same subversive spirit that
created this dance
the cakewalk a dance that parodied the
mannerisms of southern high society a
way for the enslaved to crochet at the
Masters the crazy thing about this dance
is that the cakewalk was performed for
the Masters who never suspected they
were being made fun of
now you might recognize this one 1920s
the Charleston the Charleston was all
about improvisation and musicality
making its way into Lindy Hop swing
dancing and even the cannon play
originally called the funky Charleston
started by a tight-knit black community
near Charleston South Carolina
the Charleston permeated dance halls
where young women suddenly had the
freedom to kick their heels and move
their legs now social dance is about
community and connection if you knew the
steps it meant you belong to a group but
what if it becomes a worldwide craze
enter the twist it's no surprise that
the twist can be traced back to the 19th
century brought to America from the
Congo during slavery but in the late 50s
right before the Civil Rights Movement
the twist is popularized by Chubby
Checker and Dick Clark suddenly
everybody's doing the twist white
teenagers kids in Latin America making
its way into songs and movies through
social dance the boundaries between
groups become blurred
the story continues in the 1980s and 90s
along with the emergence of hip-hop
african-american social dance
took on even more visibility borrowing
from its long past
shaping culture and being shaped by it
today these dances continue to evolve
grow and spread why do we dance to move
to let loose to Express why do we dance
together to heal to remember to say we
speak a common language we exist and we
are free